when you get a vasectomy no one can take
advantage of you like that you have
absolutely no risk and you can even go
to a bar get blackout [ __ ] drunk [ __ ]
a bunch of girls and you'll never get
them pregnant you can't make any
accidents any mistakes no one can take
advantage of you and what I really
wanted to you know bring across was you
really shouldn't trust anyone you don't
know what people have planned for you
and when you get a vasectomy you have
100% complete control of your
reproduction and in one of these videos
Jen Radha also talks about vasectomies
and how they're becoming more of a thing
especially among guys in the vegan
community which is really good because
to be honest I don't think anyone should
be having sex unless the guy has had a
vasectomy and how he also talks about
how there's so much pressure on girls to
take care of everything like or you can
take the morning-after pill I wanna wear
a condom you know you can take the pill
you can take that toxic pill and put in
your body and like you know we'll be
fine and it's like no why don't you just
get a vasectomy everyone should be doing
that anyways so you're having sex when
the guy hasn't had a vasectomy I think
it's kind of a separate issue but I just
think it's selfish and irresponsible and
I don't think I would ever do it and you
don't have that level of testicular
release in my opinion until you've had a
vasectomy and you can just bust your
nuts balls deep into your lady and now I
have to worry about getting a knocked up
you have to worry about her being on
some toxic hormone pill or injection or
IUD or whatever you have to worry about
the condom breaking and getting prego
you don't have to worry about all the
other [ __ ] contraceptive methods that
like the temperature and all this timing
[ __ ] and [ __ ] rhythm method now I
call it the [ __ ] [ __ ] method we use
Daisy this is what we use for natural
non hormonal birth control and the Daisy
basically is an ovulation tracker so it
tells you which days of the month you're
fertile and which days of the month
you're not so my current birth control
method is called the Daisy this little
device and it is a natural family
planning method or a fertility awareness
method the app peas is a fertility
awareness method of contraception which
is
so sometimes called the rhythm method
and using signs from your body like a
temperature to predict when you're
fertile and when you're not that's all
during a cycle this method of birth
control that I'm sharing with you today
is for preventing pregnancy not for
preventing STDs I use this method
knowing that I have one partner one sex
partner who does not have STDs hey guys
I realize this is a gross and somewhat
embarrassing topic but preventing
pregnancy is something virtually every
person on the planet has to think about
and take responsibility for when you
have sex there is always some chance of
exile pregnancy but the chance varies
with each method of family planning and
how knowledgeable and accurate you are
with your chosen method I am NOT a
doctor and these are medical decisions
that should ultimately be discussed with
a doctor I've provided links to the
sources of information that I mentioned
in this video now that I've gotten that
disclaimer out of the way you may ask
why am i making such a video can't I get
back to making videos about ancient
Greek literature
get back to making a video about to
Sidda tease the other day my boyfriend
was looking at James aspies YouTube
channel called James and Carly he told
me about a video James s B's girlfriend
Carly recorded where she discusses their
method of birth control as a couple
namely the fertility awareness method I
had learned back in high school that
using natural family planning as a birth
control method was basically signing up
to get pregnant and we were both a bit
stunned to hear that there was a
well-known vegan who was advising young
women to use this risky method of
preventing pregnancy the next day I
watched the video myself and I was
surprised to hear and learn about a
method I had actually never heard of
before this is a method that relies on a
medical device called the Daisy which
contains a thermometer and a computer
this computer uses an algorithm which
uses the temperature data to allegedly
tell you when you are fertile and when
you were not you can then sink the
device with your iPhone and see the data
in the Daisy view app I was haunted by
this video because of the claims that
Carly offhandedly makes because I didn't
know this
so surprised that this isn't common
knowledge but you can actually only
conceive one day of the month on the day
that you ovulate the egg only survives
for 24 hours plus there's about a five
or six day window before the day you
ovulate where sperm can survive in your
vagina and then you can conceive on the
day that you ovulate even if you had sex
days before that it will never give you
a green day and let's it's ninety nine
point four percent sure that you are not
fertile that day so that's actually even
more safe than the birth control pill in
terms of preventing pregnancy so that's
actually even more safe than the birth
control pill in terms of preventing
pregnancy and that ninety nine point
four percent statistic is backed by two
clinical trials that are in
peer-reviewed medical journals as well
as thirty years of research see this is
over 99% effective it's 99% it's ninety
nine point three percent effective which
is just as effective as the birth
control pill and IUD
she says that it's based on the fact
that you can only get pregnant one day
of the month and that seemed misleading
and dangerous to be telling women she
says that it is as effective as the
birth control pill that this device will
only tell you when you are infertile if
it is ninety nine point four percent
sure that you are infertile I found many
other female vegan youtubers espousing
this method and even sponsored by this
method so I wanted to look into this
exhaustively and share what I have
learned what I have looked into in this
video proponents of the fertility
awareness method tend to rely on a book
as their gospel it's called taking
charge of your fertility the book
advises women to use the symptom old
method which relies on tracking and
charting not only your basal body
temperature but also the cervical fluid
and cervical position using this data
they can then determine when they
ovulate and therefore they then know
when they are potentially fertile a huge
part of this fertility awareness method
is encouraging women to connect with
their own bodies and that in doing so
they will feel more powerful and
confident in their femininity I can
definitely sense a spiritual element to
the rhetoric that women will be
empowered by learning to track when
their ovaries release an egg
you get to know your cycle you get to
know your body it's so [ __ ] cool and
it just feels really empowering and it
feels really it feels really great to
just know more about something you
experience every single month and by
tracking these things it really allows
you to become empowered like I feel
empowered knowing what is going on
inside of my body
I think this rhetoric can be quite
intoxicating it carries with it a
premise that will attract many women to
this method I could see from the
comments section on these videos that
there were many women who were enthused
to hear about this method I think this
is a totally natural human response and
I can definitely sympathize with Carly
when I went vegan I started being more
conscious in terms of everything I was
putting into my body and really
questioning the concept of birth control
pill and the way that it worked and if I
really wanted to be something that was
in my life and I thought about the fact
that it was essentially putting
artificial hormones into your body every
single day and I didn't like the sound
of that so I started to look for
alternatives when I went vegan I also
became hyper aware of anything that I
was putting into my body and onto my
body I've been on the yaz birth control
pill since I was 14 years old I had acne
and my dermatologist was going to put me
on accutane accutane causes severe birth
defects and babies so even though I was
definitely not sexually active at the
time I was prescribed the birth control
pill the pill cleared up my skin enough
so that I didn't have to start accutane
and I just stayed on the birth control
pill because it seemed to work for me in
terms of clearing out my skin and then
it became a method of birth control once
I became sexually active I became vegan
when I was 22 years old and like Carly
not too long after I began to question
what I was putting into my body and I
knew I was approaching 10 years of being
on the hormonal birth control and I
thought to myself you know 10 years is a
long time to be on a medication that
changes your hormones so I looked into
other options I really really did not
want to get pregnant so I was looking up
you know the most reliable most
successful forms of contraception and I
decided I really wanted to try the
copper IUD
I knew it would provide me with
extremely reliable contraception for up
to 10 years without the use of any
hormones I had read that the insertion
would be very painful but I actually
felt no pain during it and immediately
afterwards I was really excited to see
what my menstrual cycles would be like
without having any hormonal
contraceptives involved but afterwards
it just went downhill really fast I felt
cramping I'd never felt before in my
life I actually had no memory of
experiencing menstrual cramps before it
but the IUD gave me such horrible
cramping you know the kind of pain that
just radiates into your back I bled for
over a month and then demanded that my
doctor removed the IUD so I think I was
only on it for about a month and a week
or something like that the IUD was then
removed and I resumed birth control
pills immediately afterwards because I
knew it was the most reliable method
aside from the IUD and I had grown
accustomed to taking it everyday and I
thought that I would probably just have
to continue taking it until I reached
menopause reflecting upon it yes
it's unnatural and a bit disturbing to
realize that I have not actually
ovulated since I was 14 years old there
are some research articles about the
birth control pill that are concerning
to me but the fundamental thing that is
concerning is that the hormones in your
body regulate everything from muscle
growth to emotional regulation and even
brain structure there is evidence that
being on the birth control pill makes it
more difficult for women to gain muscle
there is evidence that women on the pill
have lower levels of nutrients in their
bodies such as b12 and there have been
studies that show that there are
differences in the thickness of parts of
the brain and women who are on the pill
versus women who aren't on any hormonal
contraceptives for me the benefits have
outweighed the potential negatives
namely I was able to get through my
teenage years with clear skin and I have
never had a pregnancy scare I am able to
feel secure and in control of my
reproductive health I feel confident
that just by taking one pill every day
at the same time I will not get pregnant
it's a habit that like I said has become
really
just second nature to me I don't really
appreciate how Carly in her video just
offhandedly talks about all these
negatives of the birth control pill and
this is really common in all the other
videos that I've seen about this
fertility awareness method what the
women say is that the birth control pill
has such terrible side effects that it
has it's correlated with all these
negative illnesses because there's a lot
of you know the birth control pill has a
lot of side effects people experience
mood swings depression and anxiety
weight gain people have even experienced
cervical cancer infertility ovarian
cysts the birth control pill is
correlated with all of these serious
conditions any of that stuff is you're
basically putting toxins into your body
is absolutely garbage when there are so
many other options out there and you
don't have to [ __ ] your body around yeah
for that period that you're using that
product because you at some point you
get to come off them that's when you'll
see a lot of the damage and with those
things as well you're not sure what the
long-term effects can be I've known many
people who have gone off the pill to try
and get pregnant and yeah we can't light
it exactly but you put two and two
together by seeing that kind of get
pregnant yeah all of them have to go
through IVF to try and get pregnant I
just want to have my body do its own
thing and not be interrupted by like
hormones and stuff the whole month like
charted like criminalizing it like all
these like different ways and like when
one Foreman rises the other one like
fall was this beautiful kind of like
wave movement and taking the pill
actually takes that away like it just
flatlines her home was for a three weeks
then you stop taking it for a week and
then you have a period which is not
really a period you're just losing blood
there was no ovulation
there's no like dancing of different
hormones if something you mean was like
that just feels wrong like but we can't
think as humans that we can do that to
our bodies and not have like
repercussions I know a lot of people say
like the same amount of time that you're
on it it takes that amount of time
afterwards to re-regulate your hormones
and balance everything else
what's wrong with the female
contraceptive pill it disrupts the
natural hormone cycle of a woman's body
which is never a good thing
and causes a myriad of problems the same
pharmaceutical companies that
manufacture the female contraceptive
pill are often also chemical companies
like Bayer for example who make the
brand levelin edy that Natasha took for
10 years they are manufactured the
deadly gases used by the Nazis in the
gas chambers to exterminate the Jews
during the Second World War and now
produce genetically modified seeds as
well as a systemic pesticide responsible
for the colony collapse disorder of the
bees who in their right mind would put
something into their body made by such a
company so you know I think people
should really be cautious about that and
look into it if they're really concerned
about it and not just take Carly's word
for it on that I can see that other
women may be in a similar situation for
one reason or another they were
prescribed birth control pills and would
now prefer to be on something that
doesn't change your hormones but I get
so many women who ask they're like okay
right like I know hormonal birth control
isn't good for me I don't want to be
doing any more but I don't know what to
do I don't feel confident enough for
myself to just do a fertility awareness
method I think many women will see these
messages and buy into it because it's
easy to fall for a smiling pretty face
telling you exactly what you want to
hear in this case it's that you can be
saved from pregnancy without any
hormones if you just use this Daisy
device but what is this device exactly
what products are you buying if this
method doesn't require ingesting
anything there are two devices that I
know of the Daisy and the natural cycles
the Daisy was created by the same
company that sells lady Kampf in the
UK across Europe and in Australia
natural cycles was actually created by
one of the nuclear physicists on the
research team that discovered the Higgs
boson particle the Daisy is not approved
by the FDA but natural cycles was
actually recently approved by the FDA as
a form of birth control I take issue
with the misleading information in
Carly's video and the fact that she has
obviously been sponsored by Daisy
however the basics are fairly accurate
the Daisy is a three hundred and thirty
dollar US dollar device or 410 Canadian
dollar device that consists of a basal
thermometer and a computer that uses an
algorithm to compute the data you enter
allegedly the algorithm is based on five
million women cycles and has been tested
to be quite accurate at predicting
ovulation
[Music]
natural cycles is an annual subscription
of $89.99 which comes with a basal
thermometer or you can buy your own
basal thermometer and just use the app
for a monthly charge of $11.99
instagramers social media influencers
youtubers and so on have endorsed their
product you use the app along with the
to decimal thermometer much like this
one here their advertising is well
designed and visually appealing and it's
tailored to women who are into a more
natural lifestyle now the truth is you
don't have to use any of these devices
to use the sim totoro method the book
taking charge of your fertility teaches
you precisely how to use this method and
it advises women to be extremely
cautious about it the author recognizes
that this method is prone to use failure
in that humans can become lazy and that
this method can become less effective
something that concerns me about all
this is the wild variation between the
statistics there is a difference between
the statistics for the actual technology
the medical device the algorithm and so
on and there are also statistics for the
method itself without the use of any app
with just tracking with pen and paper
there is also the issue that on the CDC
and World Health Organization
information there isn't a separate
category for the symptom a method by
itself there are quite a few fertility
awareness based methods that are all
grouped into one category the symptom
all method is not the same thing as the
rhythm method which is nowhere close to
as reliable as the simple thermal method
so that is a bit misleading and
worrisome so how about the statistics
for the method itself this to me was the
most fascinating shocking and
interesting thing to me studies have
shown that the simple thermal method
actually has a perfect use rate of
ninety nine point six percent
effectiveness I found this really hard
to believe but there is legitimate
medical research about this that
confirms this rate
[Music]
I am skeptical but if you are extremely
cautious if you educate yourself and if
you follow the method precisely as is
outlined in the book taking charge of
your fertility this method can be used
to effectively prevent pregnancy however
I am not convinced that this is a method
that should be widely used because I
think human beings are unreliable and
prone to failure and prone to taking
risks the simple method is based on the
biological reality that a woman can only
fall pregnant if an egg comes into
contact with sperm during the 24 hours
it is viable
if a woman releases two or more eggs
during ovulation then the length of time
increases to 48 hours however sperm can
live in a woman's body for up to five
days therefore there should be at least
7 days that the woman should either
abstain from sex entirely or use another
contraceptive method such as a condom to
be even more cautious as a buffer at the
number of days that are considered
fertile could be up to 10 days perfect
use for the simple thermal method
requires tracking your temperature with
a basal thermometer every morning before
you get out of bed tracking your
cervical mucus and tracking the position
of your cervix one obvious issue with
this to me is that women's menstrual
cycles are notoriously unreliable this
method is only advisable to women whose
cycles are regular and between 21 to 35
days women's cycles can be impacted by
stress diet illness vaginal infections
its alcohol and drug use lack of sleep
and so on what if you have some illness
that causes a fever what if you ovulate
earlier than expected what if you
ovulate later than expected it relies on
getting three hours of continuous sleep
and then measuring your basal
temperature with the thermometer
immediately upon waking what if you have
a sleepless night what if you don't get
three consecutive hours of sleep in one
night this method can work for the right
person this person would be in a stable
mature monogamous relationship and have
enough stability in their lives to be on
top of the tracking
now the statistics for the devices these
devices also have legitimate research
backing them up
[Music]
the dayz uses the same algorithm as the
lady comp which has been around for much
longer than a daisy the company
responsible for both products is valley
electronics which has been making these
devices in Germany since 1986 their
devices are sold in 35 countries and
millions of women have used them
worldwide lady cop has had a decent
amount of research behind it but the
dayz specifically doesn't have as much
researched on I found a research article
that claimed that there was a
fundamental flaw to their 2018 clinical
study and that's concerning there are
women who have fallen pregnant while
using these apps of course one woman
spoke out and actually had a meeting
with the creators of the natural cycles
app they said that the number of women
who have fallen pregnant with this
method is accounted for in the research
because the typical use reliability is
93 percent the manufacturers alleged
that the devices get to know your cycle
that the device is cautious at first but
once it gets familiar with your cycle it
will start giving you more Green Day's
which means you can have unprotected sex
fundamentally these devices are using
algorithms to try to make something
inherently irregular and unpredictable
predictable and controlled part of
taking charge of your fertility is
taking away the notion that women's
bodies are so mysterious that we can't
predict what will happen however it's
not a mystery it's just true cycles are
often unpredictable and irregular other
obvious issues are just the amount of
effort compared to other contraceptive
methods and the fact that for at least a
week out of the month you have to either
abstain or use another contraceptive
method anyway like a condom I remain
skeptical about the medical devices and
the algorithms involved but it is
ultimately up to the individual to
choose for themselves what they trust
and what they want to use I really don't
think it's a good idea for any
social-media influencer to be spreading
the idea that this method is just as
effective as a condom or the birth
control pill there is a difference
between method failure and use failure
with perfect use the birth control pill
is 99.7% effective with typical use
which accounts for human error it is 91%
effective with perfect use the condom is
98% effective with typical use which
accounts for human error
it's 82% effective with perfect use the
simpler mo method of fertility awareness
method is 99.6% effective with typical
use which accounts for human error
it's 76% effective this rivals the
pullout method which is 96% effective
when used perfectly but 78% effective
with typical use so ultimately it is up
to you to decide what method of
pregnancy prevention you want to
implement in your life talk to a doctor
about it do the research for yourself
links to research articles are in the
description box below so thanks a lot
for checking out this video guys stay
safe stay healthy alright peace out it's
been a little bit of a process trusting
the Daisy and I was actually gonna make
this video last week but my period
hadn't come yet and I was nervous about
making the video because of it and then
my peer did come when I first heard
about this method I thought what
probably a lot of other people think I
am going to get pregnant